# 🩺 DermAI – Skin Health Analyzer

DermAI is a deep learning web application that performs early screening of skin lesions through dermoscopic skin images.

The concept behind the project is to utilize AI and computer vision to identify different skin lesions in an easy and efficient manner.

The application provides users with the ability to upload their skin image and get an AI prediction with a confidence score.

-

## 🚀 Live Demo

🔗 Deployed Streamlit website link 
https://dermai-skin-health-analyzer.streamlit.app/


---

## 📌 Features

- Upload dermoscopic skin images
- AI prediction of skin lesion type
- Confidence score display
- Interactive and responsive web interface
- Modern healthcare-themed UI design
- Deep learning classification using ResNet50

---

## 🧠 Model Information

A fine-tuned ResNet50 model using PyTorch for skin image classification.

### Predicted Categories

- Benign
- Malignant
- Normal

The model was trained on dermoscopic images dataset and incorporated into a Streamlit application.

---

## 🛠️ Technologies Used

- Python
- PyTorch
- Streamlit
- Torchvision
- PIL
- HTML/CSS styling

---

## 📂 Project Structure

```bash
DermAI/
│
├── app.py
├── requirements.txt
├── README.md
│
├── models/
│   └── save_models_here/
│       └── model_Resnet50.pt
│├── images/
├── asset/
├── data/
```

---

## ⚙️ How to Run the Project

Clone the Repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/dermai-skin-health-analyzer.git
```

Navigate to the project directory:

```bash
cd dermai-skin-health-analyzer
```

Install dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Launch the application using Streamlit:

```bash
streamlit run app.py
```

---

## 📊 Model Performance

- Model Architecture: ResNet50
- Validation Accuracy: 93.7%
- Number of Classes: 3

---

## 📸 Application Preview

Add screenshots of:
- Dashboard screen
- Image Upload area
- Predictions Screen

---

## ⚠️ Disclaimer

This project is designed for educational purposes only.

The prediction generated by the model is not a substitute for professional medical advice.

Seek expert consultation from a certified dermatologist.

---

## 👩‍💻 Developed By

**Yashasri Sirram**

I created this project during my learning experience in:
- Deep Learning
- Computer Vision
- Medical AI
- Web Application Development

---

## ⭐ Future Improvements

Future improvements that can be made include:
- Authentication of users
- Database connectivity
- Optimization for mobile responsiveness
- Multi-disease diagnosis
- PDF reports
- Integration with doctor consultation
 
